Washington (CNN)A government contractor was arrested in August for allegedly stealing top secret intelligence, the Department of Justice announced Wednesday.

According to a criminal complaint, Harold Thomas Martin III, 51, was charged with theft of government property and unauthorized removal and retention of classified materials by a government employee or contractor after searches of his home and property revealed hard-copy and digital files containing "highly classified information."
Martin worked at Booz Allen Hamilton as a contractor to the National Security Agency, according to a law enforcement source.
The firm had no comment when reached by CNN Wednesday.
The New York Times was the first to report the arrest.
The files allegedly obtained by Martin contained top secret information, the complaint said. Top secret is the highest level of government classification and is defined by the government as material that if disclosed "reasonably could be expected to cause exceptionally grave damage to the national security."
Martin was arrested in late August, according to the Justice Department. No explanation was given for why his arrest was not announced until Wednesday.
Martin faces a maximum sentence of one year in prison for the unauthorized removal and retention of classified materials and 10 years in prison for theft of government property, according to the complaint.
Martin is being represented by federal public defender Jim Wyda, the US Attorney's Office for Maryland said. A message left with Wyda was not immediately returned.
Edward Snowden famously disclosed a number of NSA surveillance techniques and fled the country in 2013. He also worked for Booz Allen, though there is no known connection between Snowden and Martin, and Martin's motive was not immediately clear.
Snowden speculated on Twitter that Martin's arrest could be linked to a leak of NSA secrets.
"This is huge. Did the FBI secretly arrest the person behind the reports NSA sat on huge flaws in US products?" Snowden wrote.